Removed staking bonus since it's removed in the Sentosa chain upgrade (#22)
enjin/docs: docs/04-enjin-blockchain/02-enjin-relaychain/01-validator-staking.md

---
This is an overview of staking on Enjin Relaychain, known as liquid staking.

:::info Staking Interfaces
- **Enjin Console:** You can use [console.enjin.io](https://console.enjin.io/) to access the full user interface referenced in this document.
  - *Note:* Ensure you connect to the **Enjin Relaychain** network in the top left corner, as staking takes place on the Relaychain.

> - **NFT.io:** Alternatively, you can use **[NFT.io](https://nft.io/staking)** for a simplified experience. While it offers fewer advanced features than the Console, it provides a convenient, user-friendly interface to manage your stake and nomination pools.

Reviewer: Prioritise the simplified experience (via `nft.io`) over using the more advanced and complicated experience (console). 

I would be in favour of rewriting the guide (where required) to favour the simplified experience as it's natively maintained by us and optimised for Enjin Staking.

- **Liquid staking -** a token is received that represents the user's stake. The staked token can be used (is liquid) while the user is staked. It is minted when the user stakes and burned when they unstake. It can also be exchanged for the real token.
- **Validator -** Provides security for the network and receives rewards for doing so. On Enjin, these rewards are distributed to nomination pools. (A list of active validators can be seen on [Subscan](https://enjin.subscan.io/validator).)
- **Nominator -** The account that chooses a validator to stake with. In the case of Enjin, this is the nomination pool's account.

> - **Commission -** A percentage of the rewards taken for offering a service. On Enjin, a commission can be taken by both the validator and the nomination pool owner, which is an holder of a Degen NFT.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Commission -** A percentage of the rewards taken for offering a service. This can be either or both: a commission set by a validator, for their contributions to progressing and securing the network; and/or a commission set by a nomination pool owner, for having created the pool for which the active validator(s) were selected and the user(s) of the pool benefited.
```

![](/img/components/enjin-relaychain/5.jpg)

## Payouts

> Payouts do not happen automatically. The `payout_rewards` extrinsic should be called once per validator per era. This extrinsic does two things:

Reviewer: Honestly, I'd remove this entire section about the `nominationPools.payoutRewards` extrinsic.

Whilst, yes, it's technically possible for a payout to be performed manually using this extrinsic, this is only possible if the payout hasn't been done automatically. And whilst we're also correct in that the progression of an era doesn't warrant an automated payout, we have (almost) always paid out all validators automatically, regardless, via a bot which monitored the chain for when a new era begun and made the payout to all eligible validators.

In `v1.6.x` we introduced off-chain workers, which means that payouts are (finally) paid out truly automatically by active validators who have the `keyType: nmpl` set on their validator. There may be a small lag (of up to 5-minutes) from when the next era commences to when the off-chain worker processes the payout. However, this is still very much automatic going forward.

It is for that reason, that I believe we should outright remove this section versus even moving it to an 'advanced concept', given that the use of `nominationPools.payoutRewards` should never need to be used going forward. It still exists, certainly, but it has no meaningful use going forward and it only stands to bloat and complicate this more simplified article on staking.

These extrinsics can be called by anyone. Some of them can only be called when the pool is in the `Destroying` state.

> - **`payout_rewards`** - This can be called by anyone, and should be called once per validator per era. It distributes the payouts and commissions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

See above.
